# RIGIS-coastal-wetlands-and-waters-designated-for-preservation  
[View metadata](./cstlWetPres11/cstlWetPres11.txt)

Vector polygon representation of coastal wetlands designated for preservation adjacent to Type 3 (High Intensity Boating), 4 (Multi-Purpose Water), 5 (Commercial and Recreational Harbor), and 6 (Industrial Waterfronts and Commercial Navigation Channels) waters. These wetlands are important coastal habitat that recieve a higher level of protection in the RI Coastal Resources Management Program, as amended (Redbook).
Applies only to wetlands designated for preservation adjacent to Type 3, 4, 5, and 6 waters. All wetlands adjacent to Type 1 and 2 waters are designated for preservation. Dredging and filling in these designated coastal wetlands are prohibited. The maps of designated coastal wetlands serve to identify individual wetlands; in all cases precise boundaries shall be determined through a field inspection when proposals that could impact these features are being considered. In support of this goal, the Council supports a policy of "no net loss" of coastal wetland acreage and functions as a result of coastal development. For more information on activities allowed in wetlands see Section 210.3 in the Coastal Resources Management Plan http://www.crmc.ri.gov/regulations/RICRMP.pdf.

Coastal wetlands include salt marshes and freshwater or brackish wetlands contiguous to salt marshes or physiographical features. Areas of open water within coastal wetlands are considered a part of the wetland. In addition, coastal wetlands also include freshwater and/or brackish wetlands that are directly associated with non-tidal coastal ponds and freshwater or brackish wetlands that occur on a barrier beach or are separated from tidal waters by a barrier beach.
Coastal wetlands designated for preservation adjacent to Type 3 (High Intensity Boating), 4 (Multi-Purpose Water), 5 (Commercial and Recreational Harbor), and 6 (Industrial Waterfronts and Commercial Navigation Channels) waters are identified on RI CRMP Water Use Categories Maps. In these designated wetlands only the alterations described below may be permitted. Dredging and filling in these designated coastal wetlands are prohibited. The maps of designated coastal wetlands serve to identify individual wetlands; in all cases precise boundaries shall be determined through a field inspection when  proposals that could impact these features are being considered. In support of this goal, the Council supports a policy of "no net loss" of coastal wetland acreage and functions as a result of coastal development.

Alterations to coastal wetlands designated for preservation adjacent to Type 3, 4, 5, and 6 waters are prohibited except for minor disturbances associated with (a) residential docks and walkways approved pursuant to the standards set forth in Section 300.3 of the RI CRMP, and, (b) approved repair of structural shoreline protection facilities; or, (c)  Council-approved restoration activities.
